#java-awt
Most entries will be from the schoolbook chapter 10 (GUI).
awt = abstract window toolkit
awt is part of the collection JFC (Java Fondation Classes).
Note awt uses OS specific representation, so a button in Windows or Linux will not look the same, awt uses "Peer-Ansatz" in contrast to other classes in JFC which will use a different approach like Swing classes and may have better grafical expression options. javax.swing is OS independent (look & feel for all OS the same). Eclipse has tools to help with building GUI like 'WindowsBuilder'.

* JFrame = a window in the OS, also a container for panels and other objects that will be used to display things
* Content Pane = this is the name for the container which the windows represents, other types of containers are JDialog, JApplet. From JavaDoc: 'Top-level Swing containers --such as JFrame, JDialog,and JApplet --are specialized components that provide a place for other Swing components to paint themselves.'
* JPanel = Surface on which a thing can be displayed, like drawLine grafic object, JPanel needs to be added to a JFrame
* Swing = class that contains classes like JPanel

## JFrame Notes from JFrame Javadoc tutorials (for JDK 8, in JDK 11+ simpler ways might exist!)
Frame = instance of JFrame class. Application with GUI usually implements at least one frame. "To make a window that is dependent on another window — disappearing when the other window is iconified, for example — use a dialog instead of frame.. To make a window that appears within another window, use an internal frame." from https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/components/frame.html
This Guide shows how to Respond to Winods closing events, add components like ContentPane or create Menus with setJMenuBar.
Or how to center a Frame: frame.setLocationRelativeTo(null);
Explains Windows Events in detail and links to the page: 'How to Write Window Listeners'

### The Frame API
Methods to use from java.awt.Frame, java.awt.Window, and java.awt.Component classes, from which JFrame descends.
More info of the Frame setup and its components and layers. See link above as well.
Links also on how to make Menus with setJMenuBar.


Java Web Start - easy lunch of Java Code in the Browser for example FrameDemo2 but it does not work... is this still a thing 'Java Web Start'?

##Cursor part of JFrame
example program which changes to cursor when entring the JFrame after a 3s:
``` Java
package mod226B_02.aufgabenausbuch;

import java.awt.Cursor;

import javax.swing.JFrame;

@SuppressWarnings("serial")
public class Fenster extends JFrame {
	public Fenster() {
		super("Einfaches Fenster");

		setDefaultCloseOperation(JFrame.EXIT_ON_CLOSE);
		setSize(400, 200);
		setLocation(100, 100);
		setVisible(true);
	}

	public static void main(String[] args) {

		Fenster frame = new Fenster();

		int[] types = {Cursor.CROSSHAIR_CURSOR, Cursor.HAND_CURSOR,
				Cursor.MOVE_CURSOR, Cursor.TEXT_CURSOR, Cursor.WAIT_CURSOR,
				Cursor.DEFAULT_CURSOR};

		for (int type : types) {
			try {
				Thread.sleep(3000);
			} catch (InterruptedException e) {
			}

			Cursor c = Cursor.getPredefinedCursor(type);
			frame.setCursor(c);
			frame.setTitle(c.getName());
		}
	}
}
```

## Sidenote on wait with Thread.sleep loop
In the example above a loop is used and inside it a try and catch, the loop does not work without the catch statement!

## JPanel inside a JFrame
example of use of JPanel to draw/display Objects in the JFrame:
``` Java
package mod226B_02.aufgabenausbuch;

import java.awt.Color;
import java.awt.Dimension;
import java.awt.Font;
import java.awt.Graphics;

import javax.swing.JFrame;
import javax.swing.JPanel;

@SuppressWarnings("serial")
public class Zeichnen_10_2 extends JFrame{
	public Zeichnen_10_2() {
		super("Grafik");

		setDefaultCloseOperation(EXIT_ON_CLOSE);
		add(new MyPanel());
		pack();
		setVisible(true);
	}

	private static class MyPanel extends JPanel {
		public MyPanel() {
			setBackground(Color.white);
			setPreferredSize(new Dimension(300, 200));
		}

		@Override
		protected void paintComponent(Graphics g) {
			super.paintComponent(g);
			g.setColor(Color.red);
			g.fillRoundRect(30, 30, 240, 140, 30, 30);
			g.setColor(Color.gray);
			g.setFont(new Font("Monospaced", Font.BOLD, 48));
			g.drawString("Hallo! Was wenn ich mehr Text habe?", 65, 110);
		}

		@SuppressWarnings("unused")
		public static void main(String[] args) {
			new Zeichnen_10_2();
		}
	}
}
```
Interesting fact even though paintComponent(Graphics g) is never called by my program it will be done after the main method ends in a thread generated by I dont know which object and only then will the background and the text and box be drawn.
