#oopd-composite-design-pattern
## aka interface?
this was introuced to me doing the graphics editor task. As a mean of grouping different objects into a group and show how from here one method could be applied to the whole group. For this to work you need a interface or composite class file, define one method in it, then add the 'implements YourInterfaceName' to the classes that should implement your interface. Then Eclipse will demand that you also implement the method defined in the interface! A nice way to make sure every class has the method available.
The composite class also needs to have the add command. In the programm you then want to add every object to the compoiste list, and then run the for iteration from the composite class just once for all the objects.

One of the best examples I found is on wikipedia. It has code for a Java example.

Note: I tried to make the Composite class a child of the Superclass of the leafes, so I could access the super class commands in directly in the interface so I did not need to have every leaf have the same code but have the code only in the interface method. This way it does not work extending the interface with a super class is not allowed. 'The type MySuperClass cannot be a superinterface of MyInterface; a superinterface must be an interface	MyInterface.java'. The other way round would be to have the super class be part of the interface aka implements MyInterface, then if the method you wanna use on all elements is in the super class make it a composite method, then you can maybe call it for the composite elements? This would still need a link form the leaf method to the super class method. This can be achived by setting the leaf method without the '@overide' then just have the method code be 'super.MyCompositemethod' and define the MyCompositemethod in the super class accordinglingly.